VisaPrep Homepage — Pilot Launch Design Sprint

The homepage currently works, but it does not yet feel like a polished, credible platform on desktop.

This sprint should improve the above-the-fold experience, strengthen visual hierarchy, and make the upload action immediately visible when a user lands on the page.

Do not change the product flow, analysis logic, payment flow, report UI, or existing brand colors.

1. Create a fixed top navigation bar

Move the VisaPrep text logo from the centered hero area to the top-left corner of the page.

The logo should remain visible when the user scrolls.

Desktop layout:

[VisaPrep logo]                                      [optional right-side space]

Requirements:

fixed or sticky at the top;
full-width;
high enough z-index to remain above page content;
subtle solid or lightly translucent background;
light bottom border or very subtle shadow;
no large navigation menu is required for the pilot;
clicking the VisaPrep logo should return the user to the homepage or scroll to the top.

The header should feel clean, professional, and platform-like—not like a promotional banner.

Recommended dimensions:

desktop height: approximately 64–72px;
mobile height: approximately 56–64px;
desktop horizontal padding: 32–48px;
mobile horizontal padding: 18–24px.

Preserve the existing VisaPrep wordmark styling.

2. Rebuild the hero around the primary message

The hero message should become the dominant visual element on the page.

Headline:

Your interview starts with your application. So do we.

Supporting text:

VisaPrep helps you understand what your application communicates and prepares you to explain it with clarity, so you can walk into your visa interview with confidence.

Requirements:

significantly increase the headline size on desktop;
use bold or semibold weight;
improve line-height and spacing;
limit the text width so it reads confidently rather than stretching across the screen;
make the headline visually imposing without becoming oversized or theatrical.

Suggested desktop headline sizing:

font-size: clamp(3rem, 5vw, 5rem);
line-height: 1.02–1.1;

Suggested mobile headline sizing:

font-size: clamp(2.25rem, 10vw, 3.4rem);
line-height: 1.05–1.12;

The supporting paragraph should remain readable and secondary:

desktop: approximately 18–21px;
mobile: approximately 16–18px;
maximum width: around 650–760px.

Do not add gradients, animations, illustrations, stock photos, flags, or decorative clutter.

3. Keep the upload action visible above the fold

The upload card or upload button must be visible on a standard laptop screen immediately after the page loads.

The user should not need to scroll before seeing where to upload their DS-160.

Target desktop viewports:

1366 × 768
1440 × 900
1920 × 1080

On a 1366 × 768 screen, the user should see:

fixed logo/header;
full headline;
supporting copy;
the upload card and primary upload action.

Reduce excessive vertical spacing that pushes the uploader below the fold.

The hero should use the available viewport efficiently:

min-height: calc(100vh - header-height);

However, do not force awkward stretching on smaller laptop screens.

The upload card should sit immediately beneath the supporting copy with a clear but compact gap.

4. Make the upload card the visual focal action

The upload experience should look like the first step of a serious digital platform.

Improve prominence through:

slightly wider desktop card;
clearer border;
polished spacing;
stronger upload button;
visible supported-file guidance;
subtle security reassurance.

Keep the approved security note:

🔒 Your document is analyzed securely.

The card should remain centered relative to the hero content.

Suggested desktop width:

width: min(100%, 620px);

The primary upload control must be clearly visible without interaction.

Do not hide the primary action inside a collapsed element or secondary dialog.

5. Strengthen desktop composition

Desktop should no longer feel like a stretched mobile layout.

Use a deliberate desktop hero composition.

Preferred structure:

Fixed header

Large centered hero message
Supporting sentence
Upload card
Small reassurance text

A centered composition is acceptable, but the content must have:

stronger width;
clearer hierarchy;
less unused empty space;
consistent vertical rhythm.

Do not create a two-column layout unless it clearly improves the current design without requiring new graphics.

For this sprint, a strong centered platform-style hero is preferred.

6. Mobile behavior

The fixed logo should also remain visible on mobile.

Ensure:

no content is hidden beneath the fixed header;
the headline wraps naturally;
the upload card remains fully usable;
the upload button is visible within the first screen or immediately below it;
no horizontal scrolling;
safe spacing at 320px, 375px and 390px widths.

Do not shrink the mobile headline so much that it loses impact.

7. Preserve the current flow

Do not modify:

upload functionality;
file validation;
analysis state;
progress messages;
Application Insights results;
premium modal;
Paystack integration;
API routes;
AI prompts;
schema;
colors;
server logic.

This is a homepage presentation sprint only.

8. Remove duplicate branding

Once the VisaPrep logo is placed in the fixed header, remove any duplicate large logo or wordmark currently occupying space inside the hero.

The hero should begin with the headline, not another logo.

9. Validation requirements

Test the homepage at:

320 × 568
375 × 667
390 × 844
768 × 1024
1366 × 768
1440 × 900
1920 × 1080

Confirm that:

the logo remains fixed at the top-left;
no hero content sits beneath the header;
the headline is visually dominant;
the upload control is visible without scrolling at 1366 × 768;
the upload interaction still works;
no layout shifts occur during file selection;
the page remains clean and professional;
TypeScript and production build pass.
Success criterion

When a test user lands on VisaPrep from a desktop computer, the first screen should immediately communicate:

This is a real and credible platform.
VisaPrep starts with the applicant’s DS-160.
The user knows exactly what to do next.
The upload action is visible without scrolling.

The homepage should feel focused, confident, and ready for pilot users.